Misc 

	Memory map
		0x0000 - ram start
		0xc000 - where the cartridge lives	
		0x0400 - first graphics page
		0x1c00 - second graphics page
	
		video page memory size: 0x1800
	
	Resolution
		width: 256
		height: 192
		Colors: 2 (1 bit, 32 bytes per horizontal span)
	
		 						A/G GM2 GM1 GM0 V2/V1/V0 Desc. 		RAM used 
		Mode:  Full graphic 6-R 1 	  1   1   1  1  1  0 256x192x2  $1800(6144) 
	

Fun Facts
	
	Room Timers
	there is a timer for each room
	leave a room and its timer will increase by the amount decreased in the current room
	all room timers are updated every frame	
	
	The bouncing ball is hard coded to spawn at the same spot, no matter
	which level.
	
	there's an offscreen buffer with a clean version of the level 
	it's used for terrain collisions for the player
	and used to clean the background when erasing sprites from the screen
	
	A running memory counter seems part of the memory protection. 
	   or maybe it's just the random number generator
	In this version just seems to read every byte location.
	
    If you complete the game three times in a row the drops' X coordinate get adjusted 
    (clearing their LSB, making it even) so that the drops fall just a bit closer to the 
    right side of the rope. But because of how collision works, they can only kill the 
    player when climbing if the visible animation frame is the one with the right arm up 
    and not the left.	

Background Piece codes

	0: normal stalagtite going right
	1: single wall piece going down
	2: left hand corner piece
	3: top right hand corner piece / bottom left side of floating platforms
	4: top right hand corner piece
	5: bottom right side of floating platforms
	6: floor piece going right
	7: wall piece going up
	8: corner piece going down-left
	9: floor piece going left
	a: short line going down
	b: short line going up
	c: very short rope
	d: short rope
	e: mid-length rope
	f: long rope
	10: very long rope
	11: super long rope
	12: excessively long rope
	13: rediculously long rope
	14: horizontal rope start going right
	15: horizontal rope end going right
	16: horizontal rope going right
	17: blank area going right
	18: blank area going left, maybe
	19: blank area going down-right
	
Sprite Data Fun Facts

	some animations are copied to ram, creating four copies increasily offset by one bit
	drops already have their four copies stored in rom	
	splat and doors are copied to a dedicated work buffer on demand when needed to be drawn

	
Room Pickups Fun Facts

	There are exactly five pick ups per room
	The first two are always keys, the last three are treasures
	treasures are randomly chosen
	   key:        200 points
	   money bag:  300 points
	   diamond:    400 points

    The scoring system also has a random-based component. The three treasures are randomly chosen at game 
    start. When they're picked up, the player gets the base points, plus the game adds a random amount 
    anywhere from 0 to 127. The random points depend on an wandering pointer that goes linearly along 
    the rom's address space (c000 - df5a). When those points are needed, the value at the pointer's 
    current location is read and the first 7 bits are returned. 


	completing the game once changes the pick up positions and keys, 
	like a hard mode.

Clean Background

	the game holds a separate buffer of the background without any objects
	this is used for terrain collision detection and for clearing the screen
	around sprites when erasing and redrawing them. 
	
	located at 0x1c00
	
Questions

	how are floor collisions detected?
	
		starts at 0xc298 
		it checks a position 16 pixels underneath the player
		it gets two bytes from the clean version of the background
		compares a collision mask with them
	
	how is detecting vertical ropes done?
	
		starts at LAB_c85f
	
	how is detecting horizontal ropes done?
		Unsure, probably the same way vertical ropes are found, by looking at two 
		consecutive white pixels

	how does the player bounce off walls when jumping?

	how does the player code flow?


	
How To	

	how to change first room when starting game?

	how to disable collisions with objects that kill?
	
		set two nops (12 12) to 
			c2a1
			c2bd
			c2d4

	How to change the game timer on start?
		change memory location cbac to 0xFFFF
		
	how to change the game timer at runtime?
		player 1 timers are located at 3e89
	
	modify player lives
	   
	   address 0x55 and 0x56
	
	How to limit the number of drops to 1?	
	
		For title screen, change d124 value from A (10) to 1. 
		For game rooms, change the values d12a and d12e to 0.

Keys

	there's a buffer of key states, one byte per key. Bit 0 is for player 1,
	bit 1 for player two. The bit is set when the corresponding player 
	actives the key.
		
		
		
Ball

	when hitting the ground a counter at 0x32 is set with a negative value
		every frame the value goes up until it goes positive, then decrements
		until 0 at which point it starts falling again
		
	There's a state for falling, one for jumping, and one for sticking to the ground looking squashed for a few frames. 
	There's a bit of gravity physics but jumping up has a fixed count of frames before it goes back down again.
	It has a fixed spawn position so the variation in bounce locations is probably related to some of the physics variables 
	not all being reset when getting respawned. I haven't really looked into it. It's just a guess.		
		
	Fun Facts
	
		There's a table in the code that specifies which room has the bouncing ball. 
		The table has entries past room 10 (index 9), which might suggest there were 
		more rooms at one point. The extra rooms specified in the table are 
		10, 11, 12, 13, and 14. 
